1)What is Class?
      It is a BluePrint.It is a userdefined reference data type.It Consists of Variables & methods.

2)What do you mean by Inheritance?
       Inheritance is a mechanism where in a new class is derived from an exsisting Class.A Class derived from which a subclass is derived is called SuperClass.

3)What is Inheritance?
       Inheritance is a mechanism in which one object gets acquring /property/behaviours of a  parent objects.It is the most important pillar of the OOPS.In Java we create new Classes that are built upon exsiting classes. 

4)Which are the types of heritance?
        1) Single - level Inheritancce: Single-Parent and Single-Child derived from a single based class.
        2) Multiple-level Inheritance: Creating a derived class by using another derived class.
        3) Hieaarcheal Inheritance: Single-Parent and Multiple-Child derived from a single based class.
        4) Multiple Inheritance: Creating a derived class by using multiple base class.
        5) Hybrid Inheritance: It is a combination of hiearrcheal and multiple Inheritance.

5)what is the use of the static Keyword?
       The  static keyword means the value is the same for every instance of the class.

6)What do you mean by Constructor?
       A Constructor in java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The Constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

7)Tell me the types of Constructors?
       Constructor can be divided into two types: 
          1)Default Constructor: It is used to initialize default values for instance variable.
          2)Parameterized Constructor: Creating a constructor with parameters is known as parameterized constructor.

8)What are the different ways of creating objects in java?
       1) Using newKeyword
       2) Using Clone()Method
       3) Using deserialization
       4) Using newInstance()methodofConstructorClass

9)What is the use of instanceof operator?
       The instance of operator in java is used to check whether an obj.is an instance of a particular class (or) not.

10)What are checked and unchecked exception?
        Checked: It occurs when java Application is connected to resource.
        Unchecked: It occurs when program is logically incorrect.We can handle any no.of exceptions using single Catch block by specifying exception type.

11)What are the diff.types of Checked Exception?
        In Checked Exception we have 4 diff.types:
           1)Throw keyword
           2)Sql Exception
           3)ClassNotFound Exception
           4)NullPoint Exception
12)What are the diff.types of UnChecked Exception?
        In Unchecked Exception we have 4 diff. types:
           1)Arithmetic Exception 
           2)NullPointer Exception 
           3)ArrayIndexOutOfBounds Exception 
           4)InputMismatch Exception 

13)Explain the "Throws Keyword"?
           It is Used to declare which exception can be thrown from a method.While throw keyword is used to explicity throw an exception with in a method.
              This is used in a method signature & declares which exceptions can be thrown from a method.

14)How to create a user defined exception?
       User defined exception is creating your own exception class and throwing that exception using the 'throw' Keyword.

15)Can you explain the Finally Keyword?
       The Finally Keyword used to create a block of code that follows a tryblock.A finally block of code always executed whether (or) not an exception has occured.It allows you to run any cleanup-type stmts that execute.

16)What is the Default value of static keyword?
        The default value of static keyword is zero.
 
17)What is interface and its use?
        An interface is a reference type in java.It is similar to class.It is a collection of abstract methods.A class implements an interface.Along with abstract methods,an interface may also contain constants,Default methods,Static methods,nested types.

18)What are marker interface?Can you list out some marker interface?
        Marker Interface: An interface which donot have any method.
              List: 
                   1)Cloneable interface : It is pressent in java.lang.package.
                   2)Serializable interface: It is present in java.io.package.It is used to make an object eligible for saving its state into a file.
                   3)Remote interface: It is present in java.rmi package.

19)What are wrapper object? List out some marker objects?
        A wrapper class contains primitive data type(int,float,double,----.).When we create an object to a wrapper class, It contains field and in this field we can store primitive to object.

20)What is boxing and Unboxing?
        boxing: It convert into Primitive to object.
           ex: Integer obj=new Integer(10);
       Unboxing: It convert into object to promitive.
            ex: int x=obj.int value();

21)Which is cosmic superclass for all the java classes?
             The subclass internally inherits all the methods of the object class. Hence,We can say that the objects class is the cosmic super class in java.

22)What are the methods of object suoer class?
        1)public String to String() : Returns the string representation of obj.
        2)public final void notify() : Wakes up single thread,Waiting on this object's monitor.
        3)public in hashcode() : Returns hashcode no.of this obj.

23)What is the use of this() keyword?
        It is used to invoke current class default constructor.

24)What is the use of super() keyword?
        It is used to invoke super class default constructor.

25)What is Serialization?
        It is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.It is usually used in Hibernate,JMS,JPA,EJB,serialization in Java helps transport the code from one JVM to another.

26)What is the use of transient Keyword?
        It is used to avoid Serialization.If any obj.of a data structure is defined as atransient,Then it will not be serialized.

27)What is Shallow Cloing?How to achieve it?
        It creates a new instance and copies of all the fields of the object to that new instance where both are reflecting same memory in heap memory.

28)What are the Properties of hashset?
        .No duplicates
        .Insertion ordered
        .Not Synchnorous

29)Explain Comparator and Comparable Interface?
           Comparator : It is interface implements sorting by taking the attributes of an obj.into consideration.
           Comparable : While Comparable is used an obj. that are naturally ordered.

30)How to convert list to Array and Vice-Versa?
       The arrays class of the java.util package provides you a method named as list().This method accepts an array and converts them into a list and returns it.


31)How we can achieve inheritance in java?
       In java we declared using the extends keyword. One class extends another class by using extends keyword in class definition.

32)Which Collection provides the sorted collection?
         If you want to maintain a sorted list which you will frequency modify. Then use an array list but when you need to insert an element,Always use collections.
