JAVA INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

1) Wath is class ?
   A class is Blue print from which you cancreate the Object of class.
   Class is collection of Objects.
   
2) What do you mean by inheritance ?
   A son inherits the properites of father or grand father,like color,height,eyes color etc..
   
3) What is Inheritance ?
   It is Acquring the variables and methods from one class to another class. 

4) Which are the types of inheritance ?
   1) Single level Inheritance :
      It is process of one parent class and one single class is known s single level inheritance. 
   2) Multiple level Inheritance	:
      It is process of one parent class and one child class and at least two or more inheritance class.
   3) Hieracheal Inheritance :
      Single parent mulitiple child creating multiple derived classes by using single base class.   
   4) Multiple Inheritance :
      It can be used from two are more parent class and one single class.
   5) Hybrid Inheritance :
      One parent class and one Intermidat class end two are more child classes.
	  
5) What is use of static keyword ?
   The static keyword in java is used for memory management mainly.
   
6) what do you mean by constructor.
   A constructor is a block which is used to initialized the instace varible.
   ->The name of the constructor must be same as that of the class name.
   ->It does not have any return type.
   ->It's name should be same as the class name.

7) Tell me the types of constructor.
   1)Zero parameterized constructor :
     If a constructor does not have any parameters,Then it is caled as zero parameterized constructor.
   2)Parameterized constructor :
     Parameterized constructor contains some parameters,it is called as parameterized.

8) What are the different ways of creating objects in java ?
   Five differeent ways to create an object in java:
   ->java new operator
   ->java class.newInstance()methods
   ->javaObject.clone()method
   ->java newInstance()method of constructor
   ->javaObject Serialization and Deserialization   

9) What is use of instaceOf operation ?
   ->The instanceOf operator is used for object reference variables only.
   ->It can be used to check whether an object is of a particular type.
   ->The instanceOf operator return either true or false.
   
10) What are checked and Unchecked Exceptions ?
    ->Checked exception:
	Checked exception is used when java application is connected to resources.
	->Unchecked exception:
	It occurs when program is logically in correct. we can handle any no.of exceptin using single catch block by specifying exception type.  

11) What are different types of checked exceptions ?
    ->throw keyword
    -> SQL Exception
    -> ClassNot FoundException
    -> Invocation TargetException
    -> Nullpoint Exception
    ->	ArrayIndexOutOfBound
	->NumberFormat Exception
	
12) What are different type of Unchecked Exception ?
    ->ArithmeticException
	->NullpointException
	->ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
	->NumberormatException
	
13) Explain the use of "throws" keyword ?
    The "throws"keyword is used to declare Exceptions.It doesn't throw an exception.
	It specifies that there may occur an exceptin in the method.It is always used with methode signature.
	
14) How to create user defind xception ?
   User defind Exception is creating your own exception class and throws that exception using 'throw' keyword.

15) Can you explain the finally keyword ?
    The"finally"block i used to execte the important code of the program.It is executed wheter an exception is handled or not.

16) What is default value of static word ?
    ZERO.

17) What is interface and its use ?
    Interface is a reference type in java.It is similar to class.It is a collection of abstract methods.
    It is used to achieve abstraction nd multiple inheritance in java.

18) What are marker interface?can you list out some marker intrfaces?
    An interface that does not contain methods,fields nd constants is known as marker interface.
    ->Cloneable Interface
	->serializable Interface
	->Remote Interface
	
19) What are wrapper objects?List out some of the wrapper objects.
    Wapper classes are used to wrap or convert a primitive datatypes into a class is called wrapper class.
    (Byte,Short,Long,Float,Double,Character,Boolean).

20) What is boxing and unboxing ?
    Boxing is the conversion of the value type to an object type whreas.
	Unboxing refers to the conversion of the object type to the value type.
	
21) Which is cosmic super class for all the java classes ?
    Object class of java is cosmic superclass. Every java program s the sub class of the object class.

22) What are methods of object super class ?
    1)pblic int hashcode() 
      return the hashcode number for this objet.
    2)public stringtoString()
      return the string representation of the object.
    3)public boolean equals(objectObj)
      compares the given objet to this oject.

23) What is use of this()keyword ?
    This keyword will refer to the current instance of a class.
    Using this keyword we can access instance members of a class.

24) What is ue of super() keyword ?
    super keyword is used for accessing instance members of parent class.

25) What is serialization ?How to achieve it ?
    Serialization in java is a mechanism of writing the state of an obect into a byte stream.
    
26) what is use to transient keyword ?
    To eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name.

27) What is shallow cloning ?How to achieve it ?
    It creates a new instance and copies all the fields of the object to that new instance where both are referenceing to the same memory in heap memory.

28) What are the properties of Hashset ?
    ->HashSet class internally uses Hashmap to store the objects.
    ->HashSet does not allow duplicate elements.
    ->Hashset can have maximum one null elements.

29) Explain comparator and comparable interface.
    Comparator :It is interface implements sorting by traking the attributes of am object into consideration.
	Comparable: Which comparable is used an objects that are naturally ordered.
	
30) How to achieve inheritance in java ?
    In java inheritance is declared using the extends keyword can be declare that one class extends another class by using the extends keyword in the class definition.	
	
31) How to convert List to Array and vice-versa ?
    The arrays class of the java.util.package provides you a methode named as list().This methode accepts an array & converts them into a list & returns it.

32) Which colllection provides the sorted collection ?
    If you want to maintain a sorted list which you will frequently modify.Then used on array list but when you need to insert an element,always use collections.
	
	
	
   
